Good day, I'm Norman Wildberger, and this
is one of our series of foundational talks
on mathematics. Today we're going to introduce
the integers, which is an important extension
of the natural numbers, where we include the
negatives of natural numbers as well as zero.
So here are the natural numbers in Hindu-Arabic
notation that we're already familiar with: 1,
2, 3, and so on. To get the integers, we
have to first augment with the number 0
and then the negatives of the natural
numbers extending in this direction.
There are a number of different possible ways of
introducing this to young people. One of them is
to use points on a line to think of these natural
numbers and the negative numbers as just being
points on a line extending both to the right and
to the left. That makes the negative numbers just
as natural as the natural numbers. Another way
is to use a financial model where natural numbers
correspond to assets (that's money, perhaps,
that you own), while negative numbers correspond
to debts (monies that you owe to somebody else).
Yet another kind is a model of temperature, where
you can measure 3 degrees or -5 degrees; you have
some scale which is sort of symmetrical about 0.
We're not going to use either of these models
because we want to start with only the natural
numbers and do everything with respect to those.
But what we are going to need definitely is a
system in which subtraction always works. That's
the main reason for introducing the integers,
so that not only can we subtract 2 from
4, but we can also subtract 4 from 2.
We're going to take our clue from what we
did with fractions. The way we introduced
fractions to allow us to do division is
going to be a clue to how we introduce
integers to allow us to always subtract.
So, we want a system where we're not only
allowed to take
−
3−5, but also
5−3, and we want a law like this involving
subtraction to work uniformly for all integers
𝑎
a,
𝑏
b, and
𝑐
c.
So, our definition of an integer is
very parallel to what we did when we
introduced fractions. An integer
is defined to be an ordered pair
(
𝑚
,
𝑛
)
(m,n) of natural numbers written as
𝑚
/
𝑛
m/n with the
slash going this way, forwards
and down. When we say this, we say
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n. This expression is an integer.
Now, there's an important notion
of equality between two integers
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n and
𝑘
k less
𝑙
l. They are declared to be equal precisely when
𝑚
+
𝑙
=
𝑘
+
𝑛
m+l=k+n; when
this one plus this one equals this
one plus this. So, for example,
7 less
4 equals
9 less
6 because
+
=
7+6=9+4.
Another example:
3 less
5 equals
5 less
7 because
+
=
3+7=5+5. Notice that this condition only requires
addition for natural numbers to work. Now,
later on, we're not going to always talk about
7 less
4, of
course. We're just going to end
up identifying this with the usual
3, and we're not going to talk about
3 less
5 all the time; we're going to identify
that with the number we usually call minus
2. Nevertheless, this is the theoretical framework
that pins down what these objects actually are.
So, we have a new type of mathematical object
called an integer, and we denote that new type by
int
int. It's not a natural number, it's
not a fraction, it's an integer.
So, now that we know what an integer
is, we need to define carefully what
the operations for integers are. So, here
are the operations. For addition, we have
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n and
𝑘
k less
𝑙
l. The way we add them is as follows: we take
𝑚
+
𝑘
m+k, which is another natural number; we take
𝑛
+
𝑙
n+l, which is another natural number;
and then we form the integer
𝑚
+
𝑘
m+k less
𝑛
+
𝑙
n+l. It's just the same as what we would do if
these were actual subtractions. So, we're just
mimicking the laws that are already existing for
subtraction in defining addition for integers.
The same goes for multiplication of integers.
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n times
𝑘
k less
𝑙
l. It's a bit more complicated this time. We have
𝑚
×
𝑘
+
𝑛
×
𝑙
m×k+n×l, all of that less
𝑚
×
𝑙
+
𝑛
×
𝑘
m×l+n×k. That exactly mimics
what would happen if this was
𝑚
−
𝑛
m−n and this was
𝑘
−
𝑙
k−l. In that case, we would have this minus
this. So, we're just again mimicking what
happens for ordinary natural numbers when
we take the product of two subtractions.
And now we can define the
inverse operation to addition,
and that turns out to be subtraction,
which is defined directly as follows:
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n minus
𝑘
k less
𝑙
l is
𝑚
+
𝑙
m+l less
𝑛
+
𝑘
n+k. That's
the inverse operation, it turns out, to addition.
Now that we have these operations, we can go
about and check all the laws of arithmetic
that we've already established for natural
numbers. Let me just give you one example.
Suppose we wanted to verify the law that we
wrote down earlier. So, here's one integer,
and we are subtracting this
integer minus this integer:
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n minus the quantity
𝑘
k less
𝑙
l minus
𝑟
r less
𝑠
s. Okay, that directly gives us
𝑚
m less
𝑛
n again, and now this thing here is,
according to this rule here,
𝑘
+
𝑠
k+s less
𝑟
+
𝑙
r+l. And now this integer minus this integer
gives us, again using this definition,
𝑚
+
𝑟
𝑙
m+r+l less
𝑘
+
𝑠
𝑚
k+s+m, and that was the left-hand side.
Now, the right-hand side: if we have
𝑚
+
𝑛
−
𝑘
m+n−k less
𝑙
+
𝑟
l+r less
𝑠
s, that's equal to this. So, over here, again,
the definition of subtraction of two integers
gives us this. Then we add this integer,
and then the rule for addition gives us
this one here. So now we have to compare
this expression with this expression,
and we see that this is equal to this because
of the ordinary laws for natural numbers, and
this quantity here is equal to this quantity here.
These are equal, and that establishes the law that
𝑎
−
(
𝑏
−
𝑐
)
=
(
𝑎
−
𝑏
)
+
𝑐
a−(b−c)=(a−b)+c. That's
a law of balance for all integers.
One of the big advantages in doing this this
way, as opposed to introducing negative numbers
as the opposites of the natural numbers,
is that the proofs of this law and all the
other laws become much more uniform. If you
try to prove the laws using natural numbers
and natural numbers simultaneously, then you
have to subdivide all the proofs into many
different cases. This is usually never done
because people always cheat when it comes
to establishing the basics of arithmetic, but
if you were to do things correctly, you would
find that you would have a lot of subdivisions
into special cases, and it wouldn't be hard,
but it would be a lot more work than this
rather more uniform, abstract approach.
Next time, we're going to introduce the rational
number field, which is what we get when we
amend it so that we can do division. Then we will
have a closed area in which we can do addition,
subtraction, multiplication, and division all
together simultaneously. That's the rational
number system, and it's the most important
framework for doing arithmetic in mathematics.
We're going to introduce that next time. I
hope you'll join me. I'm Norman Wildberger.